qa/browsertests
---------------

This Puppet module will configure your virtual machine for running the
Wikimedia Foundation's suite of automated browser tests. Automated browser
tests verify the functionality of the site from the perspective of its users.
The tests work by scripting a web browser to simulate common user actions (like
logging in or editing a page) and then checking to see that the site responded
appropriately.

To run the browser tests with Mediawiki-Vagrant, you will need X11 support in
host environment as well as an SSH client capable of forwarding an X11
connection. If you are running a modern Linux distribution, these requirements
have already been configured for you. On OS X, you will need to download the
latest version of XQuartz from <http://xquartz.macosforge.org/landing/>.

Before you can run the tests, however, you will need to enable this Puppet
module and trigger a Puppet run. This is simple to do. Simply edit
puppet/manifests/site.pp and uncomment the following line by removing the
hash symbol:

      # include role::browsertests

Once you've done that, save the file, and run 'vagrant provision'. (If you
virtual machine is not running, you'll be prompted to run 'vagrant up' first;
do so, and then run 'vagrant provision' again.) The test suite will be
retrieved and installed. It can take a few minutes.

Here's how you run the tests, once they're installed: connect to your machine
using 'vagrant ssh -- -X'. (This sets up X11 forwarding.) When you get to a
command prompt, run:

      $ cd /srv/browsertests
      $ bundle exec cucumber features/login.feature

You should see Firefox start up and simulate a user logging in to your
MediaWiki instance.

For more information about browser testing at the Wikimedia Foundation,
including information on how to write your own tests, visit
<http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/QA/Browser_testing>.
